

Dave would have made the atom function type 'state ref -> 'x -> 'y, 
then to "drop" things, add an option type to the language and 
a squash / filter atom.

### Program form

Thinking about the form / type of the overall program. Should there be a specific type? 

stream<pkt> -> ??? 
      

could we say that all programs have the form of: 
  stream<pkt> -> list<stream<parsed_pkt>>

  should stream<x> -> stream<y> be possible?


we're trying to define the problem / integration with larger system.
- what happens when the packet goes out the other side? 
- in an ebpf kernel, return a forwarding decision (forward, drop, etc) and update the packet buffer

another way to do things: 
  stream<(pkt, fwd_decision)>
  + if fwd_decision is a nat, then this is isomorphic to list<stream<pkt>> not quite as readable / typed, though
  

Final decision: ???

Could we also have an "End" combinator?

### Automating the share-nothing-parallel scheme


idea: can we let the users write an "unannotate" atom that takes a base atom and fast-forwards the state machine first?


```ocaml

let simple_port_knocking = {
      constr = create_int 0;
      f = (fun state pkt -> 
        update_state state pkt.pkt;
        if (!state = 3) then Some(pkt.pkt) else None    
      );
}
;;

let unannotate atom = 
{
  constr = atom.constr; (* it could have its own state too, but must call the atom's state*)
  f = (fun state pkt-> 
      for i = 0 to List.length (pkt.pkt_histories) - 1 do
        let _ = atom.f state (List.nth pkt.pkt_histories i) in
        (* update_state state (List.nth pkt.pkt_histories i) *)
      done;
      atom.f state pkt.pkt
  )
}
;;
```

then, we can find the best parallelization strategy with equivalence rules, cost annotations on atoms, and a function to sum cost over combinators.


developer writes annotate and unannotate and promises that (gives us an axiom)annotate (unannotate atom) === atom (or something like that?)

Then the static analysis does something like this: 
```ocaml
(iter annotate) (* cost 0 (assume) *)
>>> shard n (* also cost 0 (assume) *)
>>> (parallel n (* cost = cost (inner_pipe) / n = (n + 10) / n *)
              (iter (unannotate atom)) (* cost n*)  
              >>>  (iter kernel_io)) (* implicit at end of stream, cost 10 *)

  === 

(iter atom) (* cost 1 *)
>>> (iter kernel_io) (* cost 10 *)

(* (n + 10)/n < 11, so choose the left hand side implementation *)
```

The equivalency depends on the axiom, and on shard being implemented correctly, and on parallel being called with the correct arguments (matching annotate and parallel's n).

### Fold / Unfold

Another way to achieve the above is to have "fold" and "unfold" as built-in combinators.

fold_up n -- annotate each packet with n histories

unfold n atom -- run atom, but first fast forward its state with the n attached histories

```  (fold_up 4 >>> unfold 4 g) == g```

### Implementation choices

Dave thinks it'd be cool to implement this as a library, as an embedded DSL, basically. 

The idea is: 
    every time you call a combinator, it builds some abstract syntax. 
      when you compile, it puts everything together, recursively, then spits out the generated code
        (or interprets it or whatever)
